Config file and command line options

The notebook server can be run with a variety of command line arguments. 
A list of available options can be found below in the options section.

Defaults for these options can also be set by creating a file named jupyter_notebook_config.py
 in your Jupyter folder. The Jupyter folder is in your home directory, ~/.jupyter.

To create a jupyter_notebook_config.py file, with all the defaults commented out, you can use the following command line:

$ jupyter notebook --generate-config
Options
This list of options can be generated by running the following and hitting enter:

=======================================================  
$ jupyter notebook --help

Application.log_datefmt : Unicode
Default: '%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S'

The date format used by logging formatters for %(asctime)s

Application.log_format : Unicode
Default: '[%(name)s]%(highlevel)s %(message)s'

The Logging format template

Application.log_level : 0|10|20|30|40|50|’DEBUG’|’INFO’|’WARN’|’ERROR’|’CRITICAL’
Default: 30

Set the log level by value or name.

JupyterApp.answer_yes : Bool
Default: False

Answer yes to any prompts.

JupyterApp.config_file : Unicode
Default: ''

Full path of a config file.

JupyterApp.config_file_name : Unicode
Default: ''

Specify a config file to load.

JupyterApp.generate_config : Bool
Default: False

Generate default config file.

NotebookApp.allow_credentials : Bool
Default: False

Set the Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true header

NotebookApp.allow_origin : Unicode
Default: ''

Set the Access-Control-Allow-Origin header

Use ‘*’ to allow any origin to access your server.

Takes precedence over allow_origin_pat.

NotebookApp.allow_origin_pat : Unicode
Default: ''

Use a regular expression for the Access-Control-Allow-Origin header

Requests from an origin matching the expression will get replies with:

Access-Control-Allow-Origin: origin
where origin is the origin of the request.

Ignored if allow_origin is set.

NotebookApp.allow_password_change : Bool
Default: True
是否允许通过前端更改密码
Allow password to be changed at login for the notebook server.
While loggin in with a token, the notebook server UI will give the opportunity to the user to enter a new password at the same time that will replace the token login mechanism.
This can be set to false to prevent changing password from the UI/API.

NotebookApp.allow_root : Bool
Default: False

Whether to allow the user to run the notebook as root.

NotebookApp.base_project_url : Unicode
Default: '/'

DEPRECATED use base_url

NotebookApp.base_url : Unicode
Default: '/'

The base URL for the notebook server.

Leading and trailing slashes can be omitted, and will automatically be added.

NotebookApp.browser : Unicode
Default: ''

Specify what command to use to invoke a web browser when opening the notebook. If not specified, the default browser will be determined by the webbrowser standard library module, which allows setting of the BROWSER environment variable to override it.

NotebookApp.certfile : Unicode
Default: ''

The full path to an SSL/TLS certificate file.

NotebookApp.client_ca : Unicode
Default: ''

The full path to a certificate authority certificate for SSL/TLS client authentication.

NotebookApp.config_manager_class : Type
Default: 'notebook.services.config.manager.ConfigManager'

The config manager class to use

NotebookApp.contents_manager_class : Type
Default: 'notebook.services.contents.largefilemanager.LargeFileManager'

The notebook manager class to use.

NotebookApp.cookie_options : Dict
Default: {}

Extra keyword arguments to pass to set_secure_cookie. See tornado’s set_secure_cookie docs for details.

NotebookApp.cookie_secret : Bytes
Default: b''

The random bytes used to secure cookies. By default this is a new random number every time you start the Notebook. Set it to a value in a config file to enable logins to persist across server sessions.

Note: Cookie secrets should be kept private, do not share config files with cookie_secret stored in plaintext (you can read the value from a file).

NotebookApp.cookie_secret_file : Unicode
Default: ''

The file where the cookie secret is stored.

NotebookApp.default_url : Unicode
Default: '/tree'

The default URL to redirect to from /

NotebookApp.disable_check_xsrf : Bool
Default: False

Disable cross-site-request-forgery protection

Jupyter notebook 4.3.1 introduces protection from cross-site request forgeries, requiring API requests to either:

originate from pages served by this server (validated with XSRF cookie and token), or
authenticate with a token
Some anonymous compute resources still desire the ability to run code, completely without authentication. These services can disable all authentication and security checks, with the full knowledge of what that implies.

NotebookApp.enable_mathjax : Bool
Default: True

Whether to enable MathJax for typesetting math/TeX

MathJax is the javascript library Jupyter uses to render math/LaTeX. It is very large, so you may want to disable it if you have a slow internet connection, or for offline use of the notebook.

When disabled, equations etc. will appear as their untransformed TeX source.

NotebookApp.extra_nbextensions_path : List
Default: []

extra paths to look for Javascript notebook extensions

NotebookApp.extra_services : List
Default: []

handlers that should be loaded at higher priority than the default services

NotebookApp.extra_static_paths : List
Default: []

Extra paths to search for serving static files.

This allows adding javascript/css to be available from the notebook server machine, or overriding individual files in the IPython

NotebookApp.extra_template_paths : List
Default: []

Extra paths to search for serving jinja templates.

Can be used to override templates from notebook.templates.

NotebookApp.file_to_run : Unicode
Default: ''

No description

NotebookApp.ignore_minified_js : Bool
Default: False

Deprecated: Use minified JS file or not, mainly use during dev to avoid JS recompilation

NotebookApp.iopub_data_rate_limit : Float
Default: 1000000

(bytes/sec) Maximum rate at which stream output can be sent on iopub before they are limited.

NotebookApp.iopub_msg_rate_limit : Float
Default: 1000

(msgs/sec) Maximum rate at which messages can be sent on iopub before they are limited.

NotebookApp.ip : Unicode
Default: 'localhost'

The IP address the notebook server will listen on.

NotebookApp.jinja_environment_options : Dict
Default: {}

Supply extra arguments that will be passed to Jinja environment.

NotebookApp.jinja_template_vars : Dict
Default: {}

Extra variables to supply to jinja templates when rendering.

NotebookApp.kernel_manager_class : Type
Default: 'notebook.services.kernels.kernelmanager.MappingKernelManager'

The kernel manager class to use.

NotebookApp.kernel_spec_manager_class : Type
Default: 'jupyter_client.kernelspec.KernelSpecManager'

The kernel spec manager class to use. Should be a subclass of jupyter_client.kernelspec.KernelSpecManager.

The Api of KernelSpecManager is provisional and might change without warning between this version of Jupyter and the next stable one.

NotebookApp.keyfile : Unicode
Default: ''

The full path to a private key file for usage with SSL/TLS.

NotebookApp.login_handler_class : Type
Default: 'notebook.auth.login.LoginHandler'

The login handler class to use.

NotebookApp.logout_handler_class : Type
Default: 'notebook.auth.logout.LogoutHandler'

The logout handler class to use.

NotebookApp.mathjax_config : Unicode
Default: 'TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML-full,Safe'

The MathJax.js configuration file that is to be used.

NotebookApp.mathjax_url : Unicode
Default: ''

A custom url for MathJax.js. Should be in the form of a case-sensitive url to MathJax, for example: /static/components/MathJax/MathJax.js

NotebookApp.nbserver_extensions : Dict
Default: {}

Dict of Python modules to load as notebook server extensions.Entry values can be used to enable and disable the loading ofthe extensions. The extensions will be loaded in alphabetical order.

NotebookApp.notebook_dir : Unicode
Default: ''

The directory to use for notebooks and kernels.

NotebookApp.open_browser : Bool
Default: True

Whether to open in a browser after starting. The specific browser used is platform dependent and determined by the python standard library webbrowser module, unless it is overridden using the –browser (NotebookApp.browser) configuration option.

NotebookApp.password : Unicode
Default: ''

Hashed password to use for web authentication.

To generate, type in a python/IPython shell:

from notebook.auth import passwd; passwd()
The string should be of the form type:salt:hashed-password.

NotebookApp.password_required : Bool
Default: False

Forces users to use a password for the Notebook server. This is useful in a multi user environment, for instance when everybody in the LAN can access each other’s machine through ssh.

In such a case, server the notebook server on localhost is not secure since any user can connect to the notebook server via ssh.

NotebookApp.port : Int
Default: 8888

The port the notebook server will listen on.

NotebookApp.port_retries : Int
Default: 50

The number of additional ports to try if the specified port is not available.

NotebookApp.pylab : Unicode
Default: 'disabled'

DISABLED: use %pylab or %matplotlib in the notebook to enable matplotlib.

NotebookApp.rate_limit_window : Float
Default: 3

(sec) Time window used to check the message and data rate limits.

NotebookApp.reraise_server_extension_failures : Bool
Default: False

Reraise exceptions encountered loading server extensions?

NotebookApp.server_extensions : List
Default: []

DEPRECATED use the nbserver_extensions dict instead

NotebookApp.session_manager_class : Type
Default: 'notebook.services.sessions.sessionmanager.SessionManager'

The session manager class to use.

NotebookApp.shutdown_no_activity_timeout : Int
Default: 0

Shut down the server after N seconds with no kernels or terminals running and no activity. This can be used together with culling idle kernels (MappingKernelManager.cull_idle_timeout) to shutdown the notebook server when it’s not in use. This is not precisely timed: it may shut down up to a minute later. 0 (the default) disables this automatic shutdown.

NotebookApp.ssl_options : Dict
Default: {}

Supply SSL options for the tornado HTTPServer. See the tornado docs for details.

NotebookApp.terminado_settings : Dict
Default: {}

Supply overrides for terminado. Currently only supports “shell_command”.

NotebookApp.token : Unicode
Default: '<generated>'

Token used for authenticating first-time connections to the server.

When no password is enabled, the default is to generate a new, random token.

Setting to an empty string disables authentication altogether, which is NOT RECOMMENDED.

NotebookApp.tornado_settings : Dict
Default: {}

Supply overrides for the tornado.web.Application that the Jupyter notebook uses.

NotebookApp.trust_xheaders : Bool
Default: False

Whether to trust or not X-Scheme/X-Forwarded-Proto and X-Real-Ip/X-Forwarded-For headerssent by the upstream reverse proxy. Necessary if the proxy handles SSL

NotebookApp.webapp_settings : Dict
Default: {}

DEPRECATED, use tornado_settings

NotebookApp.webbrowser_open_new : Int
Default: 2

Specify Where to open the notebook on startup. This is the new argument passed to the standard library method webbrowser.open. The behaviour is not guaranteed, but depends on browser support. Valid values are:

2 opens a new tab, 1 opens a new window, 0 opens in an existing window.
See the webbrowser.open documentation for details.

NotebookApp.websocket_compression_options : Any
Default: None

Set the tornado compression options for websocket connections.

This value will be returned from WebSocketHandler.get_compression_options(). None (default) will disable compression. A dict (even an empty one) will enable compression.

See the tornado docs for WebSocketHandler.get_compression_options for details.

NotebookApp.websocket_url : Unicode
Default: ''

The base URL for websockets, if it differs from the HTTP server (hint: it almost certainly doesn’t).

Should be in the form of an HTTP origin: ws[s]://hostname[:port]

ConnectionFileMixin.connection_file : Unicode
Default: ''

JSON file in which to store connection info [default: kernel-<pid>.json]

This file will contain the IP, ports, and authentication key needed to connect clients to this kernel. By default, this file will be created in the security dir of the current profile, but can be specified by absolute path.

ConnectionFileMixin.control_port : Int
Default: 0

set the control (ROUTER) port [default: random]

ConnectionFileMixin.hb_port : Int
Default: 0

set the heartbeat port [default: random]

ConnectionFileMixin.iopub_port : Int
Default: 0

set the iopub (PUB) port [default: random]

ConnectionFileMixin.ip : Unicode
Default: ''

Set the kernel’s IP address [default localhost]. If the IP address is something other than localhost, then Consoles on other machines will be able to connect to the Kernel, so be careful!

ConnectionFileMixin.shell_port : Int
Default: 0

set the shell (ROUTER) port [default: random]

ConnectionFileMixin.stdin_port : Int
Default: 0

set the stdin (ROUTER) port [default: random]

ConnectionFileMixin.transport : ‘tcp’|’ipc’
Default: 'tcp'

No description

KernelManager.autorestart : Bool
Default: True

Should we autorestart the kernel if it dies.

KernelManager.kernel_cmd : List
Default: []

DEPRECATED: Use kernel_name instead.

The Popen Command to launch the kernel. Override this if you have a custom kernel. If kernel_cmd is specified in a configuration file, Jupyter does not pass any arguments to the kernel, because it cannot make any assumptions about the arguments that the kernel understands. In particular, this means that the kernel does not receive the option –debug if it given on the Jupyter command line.

KernelManager.shutdown_wait_time : Float
Default: 5.0

Time to wait for a kernel to terminate before killing it, in seconds.

Session.buffer_threshold : Int
Default: 1024

Threshold (in bytes) beyond which an object’s buffer should be extracted to avoid pickling.

Session.check_pid : Bool
Default: True

Whether to check PID to protect against calls after fork.

This check can be disabled if fork-safety is handled elsewhere.

Session.copy_threshold : Int
Default: 65536

Threshold (in bytes) beyond which a buffer should be sent without copying.

Session.debug : Bool
Default: False

Debug output in the Session

Session.digest_history_size : Int
Default: 65536

The maximum number of digests to remember.

The digest history will be culled when it exceeds this value.

Session.item_threshold : Int
Default: 64

The maximum number of items for a container to be introspected for custom serialization. Containers larger than this are pickled outright.

Session.key : CBytes
Default: b''

execution key, for signing messages.

Session.keyfile : Unicode
Default: ''

path to file containing execution key.

Session.metadata : Dict
Default: {}

Metadata dictionary, which serves as the default top-level metadata dict for each message.

Session.packer : DottedObjectName
Default: 'json'

The name of the packer for serializing messages. Should be one of ‘json’, ‘pickle’, or an import name for a custom callable serializer.

Session.session : CUnicode
Default: ''

The UUID identifying this session.

Session.signature_scheme : Unicode
Default: 'hmac-sha256'

The digest scheme used to construct the message signatures. Must have the form ‘hmac-HASH’.

Session.unpacker : DottedObjectName
Default: 'json'

The name of the unpacker for unserializing messages. Only used with custom functions for packer.

Session.username : Unicode
Default: 'username'

Username for the Session. Default is your system username.

MultiKernelManager.default_kernel_name : Unicode
Default: 'python3'

The name of the default kernel to start

MultiKernelManager.kernel_manager_class : DottedObjectName
Default: 'jupyter_client.ioloop.IOLoopKernelManager'

The kernel manager class. This is configurable to allow subclassing of the KernelManager for customized behavior.

MappingKernelManager.buffer_offline_messages : Bool
Default: True

Whether messages from kernels whose frontends have disconnected should be buffered in-memory.

When True (default), messages are buffered and replayed on reconnect, avoiding lost messages due to interrupted connectivity.

Disable if long-running kernels will produce too much output while no frontends are connected.

MappingKernelManager.cull_busy : Bool
Default: False

Whether to consider culling kernels which are busy. Only effective if cull_idle_timeout > 0.

MappingKernelManager.cull_connected : Bool
Default: False

Whether to consider culling kernels which have one or more connections. Only effective if cull_idle_timeout > 0.

MappingKernelManager.cull_idle_timeout : Int
Default: 0

Timeout (in seconds) after which a kernel is considered idle and ready to be culled. Values of 0 or lower disable culling. Very short timeouts may result in kernels being culled for users with poor network connections.

MappingKernelManager.cull_interval : Int
Default: 300

The interval (in seconds) on which to check for idle kernels exceeding the cull timeout value.

MappingKernelManager.root_dir : Unicode
Default: ''

No description

ContentsManager.allow_hidden : Bool
Default: False

Allow access to hidden files

ContentsManager.checkpoints : Instance
Default: None

No description

ContentsManager.checkpoints_class : Type
Default: 'notebook.services.contents.checkpoints.Checkpoints'

No description

ContentsManager.checkpoints_kwargs : Dict
Default: {}

No description

ContentsManager.files_handler_class : Type
Default: 'notebook.files.handlers.FilesHandler'

handler class to use when serving raw file requests.

Default is a fallback that talks to the ContentsManager API, which may be inefficient, especially for large files.

Local files-based ContentsManagers can use a StaticFileHandler subclass, which will be much more efficient.

Access to these files should be Authenticated.

ContentsManager.files_handler_params : Dict
Default: {}

Extra parameters to pass to files_handler_class.

For example, StaticFileHandlers generally expect a path argument specifying the root directory from which to serve files.

ContentsManager.hide_globs : List
Default: ['__pycache__', '*.pyc', '*.pyo', '.DS_Store', '*.so', '*.dyl...

Glob patterns to hide in file and directory listings.

ContentsManager.pre_save_hook : Any
Default: None

Python callable or importstring thereof

To be called on a contents model prior to save.

This can be used to process the structure, such as removing notebook outputs or other side effects that should not be saved.

It will be called as (all arguments passed by keyword):

hook(path=path, model=model, contents_manager=self)
model: the model to be saved. Includes file contents. Modifying this dict will affect the file that is stored.
path: the API path of the save destination
contents_manager: this ContentsManager instance
ContentsManager.root_dir : Unicode
Default: '/'

No description

ContentsManager.untitled_directory : Unicode
Default: 'Untitled Folder'

The base name used when creating untitled directories.

ContentsManager.untitled_file : Unicode
Default: 'untitled'

The base name used when creating untitled files.

ContentsManager.untitled_notebook : Unicode
Default: 'Untitled'

The base name used when creating untitled notebooks.

FileManagerMixin.use_atomic_writing : Bool
Default: True

By default notebooks are saved on disk on a temporary file and then if succefully written, it replaces the old ones. This procedure, namely ‘atomic_writing’, causes some bugs on file system whitout operation order enforcement (like some networked fs). If set to False, the new notebook is written directly on the old one which could fail (eg: full filesystem or quota )

FileContentsManager.delete_to_trash : Bool
Default: True

If True (default), deleting files will send them to the platform’s trash/recycle bin, where they can be recovered. If False, deleting files really deletes them.

FileContentsManager.post_save_hook : Any
Default: None

Python callable or importstring thereof

to be called on the path of a file just saved.

This can be used to process the file on disk, such as converting the notebook to a script or HTML via nbconvert.

It will be called as (all arguments passed by keyword):

hook(os_path=os_path, model=model, contents_manager=instance)
path: the filesystem path to the file just written
model: the model representing the file
contents_manager: this ContentsManager instance
FileContentsManager.root_dir : Unicode
Default: ''

No description

FileContentsManager.save_script : Bool
Default: False

DEPRECATED, use post_save_hook. Will be removed in Notebook 5.0

NotebookNotary.algorithm : ‘sha1’|’md5’|’sha384’|’sha256’|’sha512’|’sha224’
Default: 'sha256'

The hashing algorithm used to sign notebooks.

NotebookNotary.db_file : Unicode
Default: ''

The sqlite file in which to store notebook signatures. By default, this will be in your Jupyter data directory. You can set it to ‘:memory:’ to disable sqlite writing to the filesystem.

NotebookNotary.secret : Bytes
Default: b''

The secret key with which notebooks are signed.

NotebookNotary.secret_file : Unicode
Default: ''

The file where the secret key is stored.

NotebookNotary.store_factory : Callable
Default: traitlets.Undefined

A callable returning the storage backend for notebook signatures. The default uses an SQLite database.

KernelSpecManager.ensure_native_kernel : Bool
Default: True

If there is no Python kernelspec registered and the IPython kernel is available, ensure it is added to the spec list.

KernelSpecManager.kernel_spec_class : Type
Default: 'jupyter_client.kernelspec.KernelSpec'

The kernel spec class. This is configurable to allow subclassing of the KernelSpecManager for customized behavior.

KernelSpecManager.whitelist : Set
Default: set()

Whitelist of allowed kernel names.

By default, all installed kernels are allowed.